Good afternoon. Thank you for coming. We're going to begin today, as usual, the breath purification
and some silent meditation. And then I thought, really, to use today to really settle into
our practice. Give a little bigger container to really settle into each section of the
Ngondro. So we'll be using, as usual, our treasury of mantras and prayers and then also
the Dudjom Tersaar Ngondro. So thank you for coming. Wonderful to practice together. Start
with the breath purification.
Okay. So, we're going to start with the meditation. So, we're going to start with the meditation.
So, we're going to start with the meditation, and then we're going to start with the meditation.
So, we're going to start with the meditation.
We're going to start with the meditation.
Now, we'll chant the seven-line prayer and lineage prayer.
We're going to chant the seven-line prayer.
So, we're going to chant the seven-line prayer.
We'll go to the calling the lama from afar.
That's in the dhrjum tarsar nundra, page 18.
Again, just a reminder to myself, a reminder for all of us, as we're chanting, really keeping
connected with our joy, devotion, tender heart, loving-kindness, pure, just surrendering,
having devotional connection with the meaning of what we're chanting in a relaxed manner.
The essence, primordially unchanging, the innate nature free from elaboration, dwells as the
youthful vase body, the originally pure, profound clarity, dharmakaya lama, yashe dorje, be aware
of me, please grant the blessings to attain great confidence in the view.
The nature unceasing, conjoined configuration of luminous clarity dwells as the display
of the spontaneously present five certainties, sambhoga kaya lama, dhechand dorje, be aware
of me, please grant the blessings to perfect great ability in meditation.
The compassion without bias, the primordial wisdom free from all limitations dwells as
the essence of all-pervading naked awareness, emptiness, nirmana kaya lama, drudu lingpa,
be aware of me, please grant the blessings to accomplish great confidence in action.
The primordial ground of one's own awareness is unchanging and unmoving.
Whatever arises as the expression of dharmakaya is neither good nor bad, since awareness of
nowness is actually the Buddha.
The completely free serene lama is revealed in one's innermost heart.
When this original mind is realized as the very nature of the lama, there is no need
for winding contrived prayers made with grasping and attachment.
By letting go in the free natural flow of uncontrived awareness, not holding whatever
arises, the blessings of self-liberation are obtained.
Through fabricated practice, there is no time to achieve enlightenment.
This meditation produced through mental analysis and intellect is a deceiving enemy.
Now conceptualization falls apart with the abandon of a madman.
Let this life be spent in a state of uninhibited naked ease.
Whatever one does, joyful, practitioner of the great perfection, in any company happy,
lineage holder of the lotus-born, protector without rival, great treasure revealing lama,
teachings beyond compare, hard essence of the dakinis, biphin dispelled the heart's
darkness, great ignorance in its own place.
The undiminished sun of luminous clarity shines continuously.
This good fortune is the kindness of the lama, the only father, unrepayable kindness, only
remember the lama, unrepayable kindness, only remember the lama, unrepayable kindness, only
remember the lama.
And we'll turn to the fourth thoughts.
Namo, lume, tenji, gompo, lama, ten, tajodini, sintu, nedparka, ichhetsi, mitachi, weju, teni,
Gedi, glechi, jute, luwame, kamsun, korwa, dukna, jamso, nang,
renneh, daklo, chola, jurwa, sho.
Namo, lemetenji, kumpo, lama, chen.
dajo, dini, shintu, netparka, chetsi, mita, chiwetu, chen.
Gedi, glechi, jute, luwame, kamsun, korwa, dukna, jamso, nang,
renneh, daklo, chola, jurwa, sho.
Namo, lemetenji, kumpo, lama, chen.
dajo, dini, shintu, netparka, chetsi, mita, chiwetu, chen.
Gedi, glechi, jute, luwame, kamsun, korwa, dukna, jamso, nang,
renneh, daklo, chola, jurwa, sho.
Namo, lama, infallible, constant protector, beware of me.
The freedoms and favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born isn't permanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions,
which are causes, are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence
have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the Dharma.
Namo, lama, infallible, constant protector, be aware of me.
The freedoms and favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born isn't permanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions,
which are causes, are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence
have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the Dharma.
Namo, lama, infallible, constant protector, be aware of me.
The freedoms and favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born isn't permanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions, which
are causes, are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence
have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the Dharma.
Namo, lama, infallible, constant protector,
be aware of me.
The freedoms and favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born isn't permanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions,
which are causes, are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence
have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the Dharma.
[AUDIO OUT]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[END PLAYBACK]
We'll go to taking refuge.
Again, contemplating the three jewels, three roots,
three chias, all our essence, all embodied as guru and pashay.
Just reflecting as deeply as we can, we'll take refuge.
And as usual, we'll chant a few times
together as we're seated.
And then we're going to get up and, with prostrations,
take our refuge for maybe about, say, 10 minutes or so.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
From now, until attaining the heart of enlightenment,
I take refuge in the Lama, the three jewels.
We'll all get up.
If you can, we'll do prostrations together
with the refuge prayer and meditation.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
From now, until attaining the heart of enlightenment,
I take refuge in the Lama, the three jewels.
[silence]
Let go of our visualization and concepts.
Just rest in our awareness.
Take a big refuge.
[silence]
And again, in the presence before the omniscient presence of the three jewels and three roots,
all embodied as guru-pashay, will make our bodhicitta vows, generate bodhicitta based on the four
boundless.
[silence]
And we'll all go at our own rate with the chant, connecting with the intention and meditation,
maybe for one mala.
[silence]
Thank you.
Thanks for joining the practice and see you again next week.